krumping a battery connected to a cable
as fast secure and reliable providing
you keep in mind a few best practices to
get the best connection possible let's
take a look
number one match the gauge of the
connector to the gauge of the cable most
the time matching the cable and the
connector is very easy because cables
and connectors are color coded stamped
or imprinted with gauge size number 2
cut the cable cleanly using a sharp
cutter so the end is flush for smaller
cable up to 2 OTT gauge a cutter like
this quick cutter one will work fine but
for gauges larger than 2 OTT and up to
500 MCM use our quick cutter heavy-duty
cutters number three strip the cable to
the correct length so that it fits
properly in the connector barrel if you
strip it too short the crimp won't hold
strip it too long and you get too much
exposed cable which is going to attract
corrosion depending on the gauge in the
style of terminal you'll strip the cable
of different links a good rule of thumb
is about 1 inch but you should always
check the cable to the connector Berger
some technicians use a small cable
cutter or a jack neck to strip the
cables the problem is that these tools
will likely take off some of the wire
which in turn decreases the diameter of
the cable which can weaken the crimp we
recommend using a quality cable stripper
so you can set the blade to the exact
depth of the cable installation number 4
make sure you get all the strands in the
barrel to ensure the strongest crimp
again by leaving out some strands you
actually decrease the cable diameter
most cable connections benefits from
heat shrink tubing heat shrink protects
connections from corrosion color coded
heat shrink can help identify polarity
and it acts as strain relief on
connections helping them last longer
to use heat shrink be sure to slide it
on prior to placing the terminal on the
cable heat shrink is available with
additional melting sealant for positive
weather proofing connections now it's
time to crimp remember regardless what
type of brand of crimper you are using
they will all have die settings set the
crimping dies to match the cable and
connector gauge and style a 4 gauge Mac
slug like this will need to be set
differently than a 4 gauge quick
connector like this place a connector in
the dies at the end of the barrel
first crimp most connectors can be
double crimped and are marked for
crimping location be sure to make a full
crimp the crimping tool should fully
close or cycle and in complete crypt
will likely not hold the cable in place
number 7 apply the heat shrink use a
heat gun or flameless torch and apply
heat evenly using a quick heat gun with
heat reflector finally test the crimp
make sure the connectors secure and
won't pull off following these simple
practices will ensure good crimping
every time for more information on quick
tools connectors and cables visit quick
cable com